Dear Stephen McQuistin, Colin Perkins and Marwan Fayed,

We are delighted to inform you that the following paper has been accepted
for presentation in IFIP Networking 2016 Conference:

  Paper number: 1570235733
  Title: TCP Hollywood: An Unordered, Time-Lined, TCP for Networked Multimedia Applications
  Author(s): Stephen McQuistin, Colin Perkins and Marwan Fayed

We received 200 submissions out of which 53 were accepted and further 5
were conditionally accepted with shepherding.

The reviews are included below and can also be found at
http://edas.info/showPaper.php?m=1570235733, by logging in with your EDAS
user name. Please finalize your camera-ready manuscript taking the reviews
into account. You may be contacted if it was determined that the final
manuscript didn't adequately address the reviewers' comments. The
camera-ready submission is due by 1 April 2016. Note however that, in order
for your paper to be included into the proceedings, at least one author
must register for the conference on or before March 15, 2016 (see
http://networking2016.univie.ac.at/registration/ for further details).

General guidelines for the final manuscript:
  - Follow the IEEE two-column page format
  - The final manuscript is limited to 9 pages
  - Do NOT put page numbers on the final manuscript 
  - Include IFIP copyright notice on the first page
  - Use IEEE PDF eXpress to check Xplore-compatibility
  - Upload the final version to EDAS

More detailed instructions on the above are available at
http://networking2016.univie.ac.at/submissions/camera-ready-copy/

Accepted and presented papers will be published in the IFIP Networking 2016
Conference Conference Proceedings. They will submitted to IEEE XploreÂ® and
IFIP Digital Library. 

You are also requested to provide a survey on your results in one slide for
the "One-Minute Madness Session" scheduled for May 17, 2016, 11:00am
(details to follow, deadline: May 2, 2016). 

We look forward to seeing you in Vienna, Austria, in May and listening to
your presentation.

Best regards,

Joerg Ott, Christos Papadopoulos, Fabio Ricciato
TPC Chairs, IFIP NETWORKING 2016 

Peter Reichl
General Chair, IFIP NETWORKING 2016

http://networking2016.univie.ac.at/home/

+++++++++++++

======= Review 1 =======

*** Paper summary: Paper summary

The authors motivate well why new features in transport protocols for RT
traffic are needed and identify the particular requirements for a solution
- which is than later on described in detail and evaluated through analysis
and a real-world deployment.

*** Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

One important point is that TCP Hollywood is actually implemented and
deployed for the evaluation.

On the outside it looks like vanilla TCP, but in the insights it supports
optimised retransmission and unordered delivery of segments to the
application. 

Another important point is that the design and implementation supports that
(1) only client or only server use TCP Hollywood and still benefit, and (2)
that it can be supported by a user-level library or a reimplementation of
TCP in the kernel, which gives a lot of flexibility.

*** Weaknesses: What are the most important reasons NOT to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

Obviously, the authors are not the first one to identify that TCP is not
well suited for RT traffic, but might be the only TP accepted by middle
boxes. Thus, a major part of the contribution is at the engineering side
(which should not only count negative).

My main concern is that I am missing a critical analysis of the advantages
of TVP Hollywood given todays packet loss rates in networks. For the
deployment the authors delete "by hand" 5 % of the packages to demonstrate
the advantages of TCP Hollywood.

*** Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will be
helpful to the TPC for assessing the paper. Also provide feedback to the
authors.

The paper is well written and easy to read!

I like that the authors point out that there is a minor weakness regarded
to middle boxes performing deep packet inspection and might not like the
payload.

*** Contributions: Rate the paper based on the degree of novelty,
creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.
Good (3)

*** Presentation: Rate the readability / presentation of the paper.
Very good (4)

*** Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.
Familiar (3)

*** Recommendation: Your overall rating.
Likely accept   (top 20% but not top 10%, significant contribution) (4)

======= Review 2 =======

*** Paper summary: Paper summary

The paper introduces TCP Hollywood, a modified version of TCP that reduces
head-of-line-blocking. The basic idea is that of re-packaging TCP packets.
This way, there is an additional layer added to the protocol, circumventing
problems persistent in TCP due to "ossification." TCP Hollywood allows for
inconsistent retransmissions, because, especially regarding streaming
content, it can be better to send new content than to retransmit content
that is not useful anymore. There is a detailed analysis and initial
evaluation of the proposed protocol.

*** Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

Overall, the paper is very well written and very well structured. A core
strength is the extensive analysis and initial tests of the proposed
algorithm. A lot of potential questions are already answered in the paper,
e.g., that the overhead is negligible, that the worst case performance is
not worse than TCP, and that the protocol is deployable at operators (at
least in the UK).

*** Weaknesses: What are the most important reasons NOT to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

Reading through the related work, TCP Hollywood seems like yet another
minimal improvement for TCP. QUIC, e.g., seems at least as likely to
improve jitter or loss based connectivity issues.

*** Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will be
helpful to the TPC for assessing the paper. Also provide feedback to the
authors.

The authors motivate the requirement for their protocol carefully. The main
issue that is tackled is head-of-line-blocking. It would be nice to see
some real world test in future work. In comparison with other solutions,
QUIC has the advantage of being pushed by a large company with lots of
influence. Nevertheless, with an ossified transport-layer, the contribution
of this paper of suggesting an additional layer and re-packaging seems very
good and very well presented.

*** Contributions: Rate the paper based on the degree of novelty,
creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.
Very good (4)

*** Presentation: Rate the readability / presentation of the paper.
Excellent (5)

*** Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.
Some knowledge (2)

*** Recommendation: Your overall rating.
Definite accept (top 10%, excellent paper) (5)

======= Review 3 =======

*** Paper summary: Paper summary

This paper proposes a TCP extension, TCP Hollywood, targeting at multimedia
applications. The proposal is motivated by two design goals: 1) deployable
solution with performance improvement for real-time traffic; 2) to minimize
latency caused by the head of line blocking and wasteful retransmissions.
The sender and receiver of TCP Hollywood both require system level
modifications, and a prototype in FreeBSD was implemented by the authors.
Based on break-down analysis and initial tests, the authors illustrate the
benefits of TCP Hollywood for latency-sensitive applications, with an
advantage of ease of deployment.

*** Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

* The paper is well organized, and the idea of inconsistent retransmission
  is suitable for the target scenario, i.e., multimedia traffic, based on
the in depth analysis.

*** Weaknesses: What are the most important reasons NOT to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

* One questionable assumption made in Formula 1  (see below)

* No discussion on the overhead of TCP Hollywood (see details below)

* Rather weak evaluation for a system oriented paper

*** Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will be
helpful to the TPC for assessing the paper. Also provide feedback to the
authors.

In general, this paper introduces a feasible solution atop TCP for
multimedia applications. The organization of the paper is very good. The
analysis and implementation are of significant efforts. However, there are
a few issues to concern.

First, the analysis provides a theoretic overview on how TCP Hollywood may
improve latency and head-of-line blocking through inconsistent
retransmission, but there is a simplified assumption "we assume broadly
symmetric network paths in this analysis." For general mobile networks,
this is not the case. As one way delay can be asymmetric in most mobile
access, this poses a concern for the usage of RTT/2 (in Formula 1),
especially for interactive traffic. When RTT value grows, using RTT/2 will
yield noticeable bias in the estimation. This assumption also affects the
description in Table I as the conclusions are derived from Formula 1.

Second, there is no discussion on the overhead TCP Hollywood may introduce,
i.e., by adding the intermediary layer. Since operations of copying payload
between buffers and reassembling TCP streams into messages can add extra
latency, necessary discussions are needed but unfortunately almost missing
from the paper.

Third, the implementations are more toward engineering hacks rather than
deployment-oriented solution, especially considering the pitfall it might
become "yet another" TCP variant even if it is claimed to be deployable. In
addition, the source code is not publicly accessible, which makes it hard
to check the implementation to acquire more details. Simply based on the
lines "The TCP modifications in the kernel impact approximately 300 lines
of code, while the intermediary layer comprises 600 lines of user-space C
code", it is hard to convince the networking community. For a proposal
marked as "deployable on the public Internet", an idea (and with some novel
hacks) is not enough.

The evaluation is the weakest part of the paper. Although there are 12
operators claimed to be covered, it appears to me more like a lab set up
with end devices using different operator networks (which is fine for
initial assessment).  And the results shown in Figure 6 only give us a hint
that this proposal works (in a dummynet environment). 

To match the claim, further work is needed, especially on system evaluation
and comparison study, in order to convince the value of TCP Hollywood,
i.e., on overhead (since the proposal artificially adds message-oriented
delivery atop TCP) and its claimed performance benefits. For instance,
comparison studies against UDP based QUIC and TCP based Minion are needed,
in this regard.

*** Contributions: Rate the paper based on the degree of novelty,
creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.
Good (3)

*** Presentation: Rate the readability / presentation of the paper.
Good (3)

*** Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.
Familiar (3)

*** Recommendation: Your overall rating.
Likely Reject   (top 50% but not in top 30%, needs more work) (2)

======= Review 4 =======

*** Paper summary: Paper summary

The paper presents a modified TCP transmission and reception for real time
media, known as TCP Hollywood. The work focuses on improving the playout
performance by allowing inconsistent retransmissions to avoid the
Head-of-line blocking. An architecture of the model is presented which
introduces a intermediate layer for message oriented abstraction. The
theoretical model is presented followed by implementation with the
experiments conducted across UK. The results for playout time versus RTT
are shown to validate TCP Hollywood.

*** Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

The paper investigates in detail about the Head-of-line blocking caused by
TCP retransmissions, and proposes a real time model that can be deployed
and implemented on the FreeBSD 10.1 kernel, that facilitates inconsistent
retransmissions. The deployment of the proposed model improves the playout
performance, specially in case of real time media where the delay bounds
are strict. The architecture of the model is clearly described and the
practical implementation validates the model.

*** Weaknesses: What are the most important reasons NOT to accept the paper? [Be brief.]

Figure 6 plots RTT versus playout time but the description of the results
are not easy to follow why the playout time drops with increase in RTT. A
little information is given on the complexity of the model, if the
abstraction in the intermediate layer adds delay and queuing to the stream
of bytes. It is not clear how  TCP Hollywood bi-passes the Middleboxes.

*** Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will be
helpful to the TPC for assessing the paper. Also provide feedback to the
authors.

The authors indicate message expiry as the retransmitted message that
arrives too late or is dependent on the previous message. The
implementation does not handle or discuss about the dependancy of the
messages. In case of a video delivery, if the key frames are not
retransmitted, it has an impact on the end user Quality of Experience.
There is a separate buffer to hold per-message data. What is the impact of
the separate buffer on the CPU overhead and delay?The maximum acceptable
delay is denoted by Tmax, but the value is not pre defined.

*** Contributions: Rate the paper based on the degree of novelty,
creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.
Very good (4)

*** Presentation: Rate the readability / presentation of the paper.
Good (3)

*** Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.
Familiar (3)

*** Recommendation: Your overall rating.
Likely accept   (top 20% but not top 10%, significant contribution) (4)

